=== Transcript ===
Hi, I'm Raiyam Nakhon. In our college, in today's session, it's going to be a Q&A session regarding the new Prime batch, which is the complete AI ML batch. Just can't there, we'll do AI job preparation in four plus months. After all the students were dedicatedly waiting for Prime, there's an early bird offered to Raiyam on 27th October, evening 9th. Telling for enrolling in the batch is in the description box. So, we'll do AI engineering or data science specific roles for preparation, which can't there are our concepts to learn our code, plus we're also going to build multiple projects. So, that our focus is on practical learning and practical skill building. So, we'll start with our Q&A session. So, in terms of Q&A, the first question that we got is who exactly is the AI ML batch for? So, the AI ML batch is specifically for four types of people. In them, we come into some category, then we are eligible. First of all, our students and our graduates and our working professionals who want to dedicatedly prepare for AI tech roles. AI tech roles are our engineering role, which has a lot of companies in AI ML, engineering and machine learning engineers. It's a title that is given to the engineers. Or our data science related roles. If we want to prepare these roles for the dedicated day, then we are eligible. The second category is, if we are already a working professional, like we are in a software engineer or a data analyst, and a data engineer, now we want to transition to AI based tech roles. So, in that case, we are eligible. The third category is for students who are dedicatedly preparing for software engineering, software development positions. But they also want to keep a healthy mix of development and machine learning projects in their resume. So, development projects will be added in the same way. But if we want to build a machine learning project, then we can learn from our AI ML batch and we can also build projects. The fourth category is for individuals who are generally looking to just upskill in AI based skills, so we can also prepare our batch. So, in short, if we are a BTech, MTCM students, we want to prepare our full-time roles in the final year, or we want to prepare our first year for our internship in the third year, or we are a working professional who wants to transition. So, we are eligible for our first batch to prepare for our AI ML batch. The second question was regarding the schedule of the batch. So, in the batch, if we talk about the timeline, then basically, our batch will be for 4 plus months. That is, we will do our AI ML concepts in 4 months. We will build a lot of projects with it. And we will have 5th month in the next few more additional projects. So, the time of the batch completion is 4 plus months, but the access will be the batch that will be for 15 months. So, for 15 months, the lectures, the live sessions, the recordings, the resources, and the access to the next month. So, the access here is deliberately, we have kept 15 months and we have not kept the lifetime access. Because lifetime access leads to lifetime procrastination, which students do not study at all. That is why, a healthy deadline is very important so that we complete our batch in timely manner. If we talk about the exact lecture schedule, then for lectures, we will follow our weekend schedule. That is, we will follow our weekend schedule in the end of the week. And along with the lectures for that week, we can also have additional live mentorship sessions that will be in the week. So, the more weekend lectures are, and the recordings of our live mentorship sessions, we can see them in a few more times, we can see them in a few more times, which is going to provide us a lot of flexibility, and it will also save our time in case we miss something or if we want to revise something. So, in the first batch, we have shared the schedule that if we are going to college classes or our full time job, then we can also prepare ourselves. Also, in the first batch, the lectures, the live mentorship sessions, they will be with me, plus there will be some additional sessions which will be covered by some AI professionals. And in the batch, we will not do lectures with them, we will build multiple projects with them, because our focus will be on practical learning. So, we are actually going to focus on learning by doing. Next question from students was, will fundamentals be covered? So, yes, we are going to start with complete fundamentals. We will start our path and seek, which is going to be our primary programming language in the batch. So, we will start our path and seek from complete scratch, and we are going to cover all the important concepts. So, in the first batch, there is no prerequisite for AI. If we are a student, who has not done any programming, or we are a student who has done a lot of programming, or we are a fresher and a working professional, who has more programming languages. We can prepare all the students with our own primes. And in the primes, we will do our practical and job-oriented preparations, which we will not research, such as some masters or PhD students, we will learn from our job preparation point of view from our artificial intelligence and machine learning skills. If we talk about the entire syllabus, then it looks something like this. We will start by learning Python programming language, and then we will deal with data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, how we collect data, worry will not be the best for study or research purposes and it cannot be within a long time. worry will not be the best for study or research purposes and it cannot surface and it cannot surface and it cannot surface the best for study or research purposes and it cannot surface and then will continue to produce data. worry will not be the best for study or research purpose and then will continue to produce data, and it cannot surface, because last year, 16 month is a 8 volumes etcetera before the 8th government which is a mix of Hindi and English. Today's Q&A session is in a good way. It is a mix of Hindi and English. All our lectures and live mentorship sessions will be in a good way. Next question was regarding a certificate. Will there be a certificate? Yes, there will be a certificate of completion which will be completed after all the lectures are completed. But I strongly advise you that if we are going to take a certificate in the batch, we should not come into the batch. In the batch, we should think about the practical point of view when we want to learn AIML skills from practical point of view. We want to make some good projects, we want to enhance our region and we want to skills themselves. We don't get a good job in the tech industry because we have good jobs, good internships. When we have some practical skills when we put our hard work on our profile. So yes, there will be a certificate. But we don't have to enroll for the certificate. We want to learn some skills when we want to build some projects. Next question was regarding a link for international students. Yes, there is a separate link for all the international students. It is the link of the H-Type. You will get a link in the description box of the Q&A session. Plus, it is also available in the description box of the launch video. So, majority international students are able to enroll with that link. Some specific countries students might be facing some issue. So, we are looking for a solution. So, as soon as the solution is done, we will also update you on YouTube. Some students also ask regarding the EMI option. So, EMI option is something which is very bank dependent. So, we can go on the payment page and we can check if this option is available for our particular bank. So, I hope that in the next session, we have covered all the important doubts and queries in our mind. And if you have any other additional doubts, then our EMI badge, the complete page of our college website is at the end of the page. There is an FAQ section where we will get the most probably related doubts. So, once again, the classes we are trying are starting on 15th November. And for all the students who dedicatedly requested for the EMI badge, there is an early bird offer Jurega 27th October, Shyam Kenova Jitak, the link for enrolling in the badge is in the description box. See you in classes.

=== Summary ===
An early bird offered to Raiyam Nakhon on 27th October, evening 9th . The AI ML batch is specifically for four types of people, including students and working professionals who want to prepare for AI tech roles . The time of the batch completion is 4 plus months, but the access will be the batch that will be for 15 months . In the first batch, the lectures, the live mentorship sessions, the recordings, the resources, and the access to the next month .
