=== Transcript ===
In today's video I'm going to share with you my easy to follow five stage motorcycle cleaning guide and it's going to transform your bike from looking like this. And to this. Actually I think I'm going to save the results until the end. If you're new to the channel welcome my name's Jack and I'll form that detail by trade I'm a mechanic. I take providing cleaning cars and bikes and this is going to sound a bit weird but I actually enjoy the process and I like seeing the transformation from start to finish. I've also got quite a high standard of detail. If you've seen any of my other videos on my shorts you'll know exactly what I mean. To be honest with you I think I've got a mild case of OCD. Anyway enough about me let's crack on with stage one. The chain. Stick your bike on its center stand or a paddock stand whatever works best for you. I use this stuff before using a chain cleaner. It helps the brake down the bulk of the grime on the chain and because of that I find myself using less chain cleaner. You dilute it with water 50-50. I use a spray bottle at a bottom of the store. I link both of these up in the description. Spray on the chain and let it dwell for about five minutes. Once it's worked it's magic you can rinse it off with a hose pipe. Some people use pressure washers on the bikes. I think it's overkill unless it's a motocross bike or an indoor bike that's absolutely covered in mud. Next up we're going to actually deep clean the chain. I like to use multiple chain cleaner or this stuff's pretty good too. This is the chain cleaning tool I use. Same again I'll put both the links for these in the description. I clean the chain in small sections at a time so I'll spray it brush it spin the wheel doing the next section just repeat the process. Once you've done this side of the chain you want to flip the brush around and do the opposite side. Don't do what I've seen some people do online when you start the bike up putting gear like this wheel spin and then clean the chain. To me I think that that is eventually going to end in tears and you're going to lose a pink gear. I like my pinkies. My little run over in the chain clean we can now move on to stage two wash. Completely drench the bike in the bike wash and let it soak. Make sure you're getting them hard to reach places. You can even put it on its side stand for this. After it's soaked for a while rinse it off. I use two buckets when washing one filled with water and the other one filled with water and shampoo. I have grit guards in both buckets. This is the shampoo I use from now on instead of me saying I'm going to link stuff in the description. Every product you see on the screen will be in the description. I have two microfiber wash mitts, one is clean and one is not so clean. The clean ones for the more delicate areas like fuel tank and the mud guards, the painted parts that don't want scratching. For the hard to reach areas I've also got a selection of brushes. With the better microfiber cloth I'm doing the delicate areas first. I'm not applying too much pressure either. Before I put the wash mitt back into the bucket filled with soapy water I dip it in the bucket without any soaping. I do this to keep the wash mitt clean as it will help to prevent any scratches. With the other wash mitt and the brushes I mentioned earlier I can clean the other parts of the bike. Spelt wheels are a pain in the ass. For any stubborn areas like underneath the engine I spray the bike cleaner back on and then agitate it with a detailing brush. Once you're happy it's clean you can rinse the bike off. I think we're just about ready for stage 3. Dry. This is what I use to dry the bike, it's a pet dryer. You can get proper automotive ones but the well-expensive. This was about £60 on Amazon and it does a great job. I've turned the volume of these clips all the way down but it can probably still air just how loud it is and this is on its lowest setting. I also pop off the side panels and the seat when drying water gets everywhere. Don't forget make sure the chain is bold dry. We're going to dilubin that up later on. I don't think you need to see any more of this. Let's move on to stage 4. Protect and polish. What I'm doing now is I'm going around the bike with some GT85. This is a water display so if there's any water that's still lurking around when we wash it this is going to get rid of it. For normally that it's also good for preventing corrosion. I've also noticed some spots to tie on the exhaust and at the front of the engine I've also got some tyre remover. That's going to get rid of that. Before I put the seat and the side panels on I like to dose all this area with GT85. This is totally safe to use over electrical connections and it's going to drive out any water that's still lurking about. Wipe off any excess of a clean microfiber cloth. I didn't even use the tyre remover in the end. The GT85 got it off with a detailing brush. Well the detailing brush got most of it off. It's a result of something else in the end. So here's a prime example of that OCD I was telling you about. We started the video. Yes I am cleaning my engine with a toothbrush. Is this normal behaviour? Probably not. Don't worry it's not my toothbrush. That's my wife's. When it comes to your wheels obviously don't try and spray this directly onto him. You're going to get it all over your brake discs. Spray it onto a microfiber cloth first. When using the straw provided it makes getting in them hard to reach areas of grease. Concentrate on the engine, the framework, the underside of the bike and the swing arm. You'll notice I've not mentioned anything about the painted parts yet so I'll just feel tank and I'm going to cover them in just a second. This is the products I like to use on the painted parts. The great thing about this is it disguises them swirl marks that you can sometimes see on the vehicle especially when you're out in the sun. Black hole is designed for dark coloured vehicles but whole boys also make another product called white diamond. That's for the lighter coloured ones. Add a few blobs to a microfiber applicator and apply to the bike. Apply to all the painted parts on the bike. After allowing it to haze over you can now do the satisfying part. Puff it off. Using a brand new clean microfiber cloth you can buff it off. Check out that shine. I love this stuff and it smells really good so. The bike's taking shape now. I'm not going to record this next section. It's basically what we've just done with the poor boys but now we're going to be using a wax. This is going to enhance the shine even more and it's going to give it another little protection. With the bike waxed it was time to move on to those shiny parts on the bike. The dish you're going to want some polishing cloths and some auto-cell metal polish. Apply a good amount of pressure. This is going to cut away that surface layer. I have a proper love-hate relationship with these polished parts. When the clean, the best part of the bike. When you're neglecting and you get like this, you're also the worst. You've really got to keep on top of them. So the last time I rode this bike, I made a video on it and I'll link it at the end. It was a wet day and I rode the bike, come home and I put the bike in the garage. Didn't rinse it off or anything. I put it in the garage for about five days about even such a name. And all the cases just started to get some surface corrosion on there because of the salt on the roads and now it isn't absolutely night now getting it off. I'm going to be here for a while. So yeah, if you don't have a lot of polish parts on your bike, consider yourself lucky. So you need to still watch in a video and just like to say nice one. Got a lot of plans coming up for this bike. You're obviously interested, you won't be watching this now. So if you're not already, why don't you subscribe to the channel. You know it makes sense. I'm going to show you these at the end, which isn't far off now. Stage five, Loub. I bet some of you thought I forgot about lubing up the chain. I've not, I just do it at the end. This is the stuff I use. If you go lubing up the chain, if you think it might be slackening, it needs adjusting up. Got a little tip for you. Just put the bike on its side stand so the weight's on the back tire. Last the weight's on the tire. You can just give it a quick pull. That's what she said. Or he said, if the chain does move, obviously it's too slack. It's going to need adjusting. I saw a reel on Instagram the other day and someone was applying the lub on this section of the chain, which is the total wrong way. All you're doing now is lubing up the back of the chain. That's not even the section that comes into contact with the sprockets. I spray the inside edge of the chain. I'll start with a reference point like the link. Do that section, spin the wheel, do another section and just keep going until I get back to the link. Then I know I've completed the whole chain and it's all lubed. I fold some cardboard underneath like this to stop any excess dripping onto the garage floor. The final stage for me is to add some tire shine. I know this is going to probably give mixed opinions in the comments section. I only applied it to the side wall, nowhere near the tread of the tire. 12 hours later and the bike's done. Yeah, 12 hours. I'm absolutely knackered, but I'm ready for some before and afters. I'll start with the back. Films out of dodgeball or classic. Simply, you're weird.

=== Summary ===
In today's video Jack shares his easy to follow five stage motorcycle cleaning guide . It's going to transform your bike from looking like this to this . We're going to move on to stage 4 and protect and polish the bike from this to stage 5 . Drench the bike in the bike wash and let it soak for a while before washing it off . Clean the chain in small sections at a time so I'll spray it brush it spin the wheel doing the next section just repeat the process . For any stubborn areas like underneath the engine I spray the bike cleaner back on and then agitate it .
