=== Transcript ===
Samsung phones come with a lot of cool and useful features which I think every branch would copy including iPhones. But they already do that. I have mine. In today's video I'll tell you 10 of my favorite Samsung features and if you're a brand watching this video take your notes out. Let's get started. Okay, so let's say you're in a car and the song that's being played from your phone. Now you want to scroll some reels but you just can't because the moment you do that the music stops. But with Samsung it's no problem. Here you get this separate app sound feature where the sound of your music app goes directly to your car and the rest of the audio plays on your phone. So no matter what you do on your phone, be it scrolling reels, watching YouTube videos or even playing games, the music on your car does not stop. I think it's a well thought out feature only people and I could phones like this other brands should just copy this. Now as the name suggests this feature lets you play same audio on two Bluetooth devices simultaneously is in that one. All you have to do is connect both the Bluetooth speakers or TWS to your phone, play the movie or song you like and just tap here. And that's it. It's done. It's actually useful for couples and friends with similar music taste and the best part is that it works with any Bluetooth speaker or TWS. They don't have to be from Samsung unlike iPhones. Now this happens with me a lot. I come across a nice outfit. I take a screenshot thinking that I'll buy when I get some time. But when I get back to the screenshot, I completely forget about the website link. But not anymore. Because there's this KOTO website pop-up at the bottom and on clicking that, it'll take me directly to the website. It works with YouTube videos also. So you take a screenshot of the video or the comment section, you'll see this KOTO source pop-up at the bottom and on pressing that, you will plan on the video. I'm not sure who thought of this feature but whoever did that, a big kudos to that person because it just saves a lot of time. Samsung also offers a temporary cloud backup of unlimited storage. It's only for 30 days. But if you're giving your phone for repair or just switching to a different phone, you can just backup everything here and restore on your new phone or the repaired one. This is definitely a very useful feature but the only catch is that it works with Samsung phones only and doesn't backup what's up data. Obviously. But still, I think it's a good feature to have because no other brand offers that. Samsung also has this feature called screen annotation that lets you highlight, annotate and even write text on light screen recordings. Now this is very useful if you're trying to tell your parents or your friends how to do something on their phone step by step. And in case you're reviewing the video, you can just screen record while you're watching and pinpoint the changes right on top of the video. This feature genuinely save a lot of time. In screenshots also, there's something special. Once you enable this setting, all your future screenshots will never include your status bar and your navigation bar. This is extremely handy because you'll never have to crop your notifications ever. QuickShare is very useful. We all agree on that but on Samsung, it comes with super paths. Yes, here we get two very cool options like sharing the image with the watermark and sharing the photos secretly which will have a self-tilly timer and reshaling restrictions to disallow screenshots and forwarding. This works only when you're sharing from one Samsung device to another but nonetheless, it's a good feature to have. I hope Apple brings this to airdrop without calling it revolutionary. There's also this cool feature where if I use this finger, the phone normally unlocks. And when I use this finger, the phone automatically goes into dark mode, put itself into mood and opens incognito mode on browser. Hey, hey boy. Now this is done with routines which is basically Apple shortcuts on steroids. There are plenty of routines you can set as per your need and the best part is that they work flawlessly. For example, I have also set this routine where the wallpaper will change depending on the phone, if it's on silent mode or if it's on bringing mode. By the way, if you already use any Samsung routine, tell us in the comments. If you're a long time Samsung user, you would definitely know about Samsung Pay. Samsung Pay lets you store any UPID details, government cards, credit or debit cards and the even offered cashbacks. Plus, they're also rolling on NFC card support in some markets so you can just copy your excess card to the phone and don't have to carry the card with you anymore. Honestly, this is extremely convenient and once you start using it, you totally have to take out your wallet at all. I feel which more brands copy this. Alright, so this one is a cool one. Sensing as this feature called Amplify Ambient Sound, which basically turns your phone into a personal sound amplifier aka fine device. Once you turn it on from the accessibility settings, you can just place your phone anywhere you want. You can amplify the sound around it and that plays it directly on your Bluetooth earphones. This feature is actually designed to provide hearing support but I'm sure there's more to it and by the way, it works with any Bluetooth earphones like iPhones which works only with earpods. Let's say your phone screen is on. Instead of pressing the power button, just give it a high five and the screen will go dim just like it does on smartwatches. You can also control the music right from your AOD by just double tapping on the display. So that's it from my side. Now what we just do is we want sensing to copy from other brands, tell us in the comments and if you want to watch more such videos, give us a hand by pressing the like button. It really means a lot. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next one.

=== Summary ===
Samsung phones come with a lot of cool and useful features which I think every branch would copy including iPhones . In today's video I'll tell you 10 of my favorite Samsung features and if you're a brand watching this video take your notes out . Samsung Pay lets you store any card details, government, credit or debit cards and the even offered cashbacks . Samsung also offers a temporary cloud backup of unlimited storage but only for 30 days . There are plenty of routines you can set as per your need and best partlessly set . For example, I have also this routine where the wallpaper will change depending on the phone, if it's on silent mode or bringing mode .
